Naruto Uzumaki is a shinobi of Konohagakure's Uzumaki clan. He became the jinchūriki of the Nine-Tails on the day of his birth — a fate that caused him to be shunned by most of Konoha throughout his childhood. After joining Team Kakashi, Naruto worked hard to gain the village's acknowledgement all the while chasing his dream to become Hokage. In the following years, through many hardships and ordeals, he became a capable ninja regarded as a hero both by the villagers, and soon after, the rest of the world, becoming known as the Hero of the Hidden Leaf. He soon proved to be one of the main factors in winning the Fourth Shinobi World War, leading him to achieve his dream and become the village's Seventh Hokage.

Abilities:
Originally, Naruto was a rather inept ninja, failing to graduate from the Academy three times. Through sheer determination and training however, his skills rapidly improved to defeat strong genin like Neji Hyūga, Gaara, and Kabuto Yakushi, earning acknowledgement from all the Sannin for his potential.[53] Under various tutelage, Naruto was able to defeat various members of Akatsuki, ultimately earning praise from Konohagakure as a Hokage-material hero.[54] Naruto's personally defeated various reincarnated Kage[55] and jinchūriki during the Fourth Shinobi World War.[56] He also could compete against if not defeat world-threatening opponents, such as Madara Uchiha, Kaguya and Toneri Ōtsutsuki. Many believe Naruto was the central key to winning the war.[57][58][59] By adulthood, his prowess made him the Seventh Hokage, regarded as the strongest shinobi in history[60] and having command of overwhelming jutsu.[61] With the combined might of Sasuke Uchiha, noted as the only shinobi to rival him,[39] they are said able to destroy a continent.[62] Together, they overpowered transformed Momoshiki Ōtsutsuki, and pushed Isshiki Ōtsutsuki's vessel to its limit, with the latter admitting that his vessel was too weak to defeat Naruto without his assistance. In fact, Amado believes that Naruto and Sasuke are the only ones capable of defeating Isshiki in his imperfect reincarnation, something that he himself also believe in. Once fighting at his absolute peak, Naruto was able to overcome Isshiki in a way that made him afraid for his life.