Sasuke Uchiha is one of the last surviving members of Konohagakure's Uchiha clan. After his older brother, Itachi, slaughtered their clan, Sasuke made it his mission in life to avenge them by killing Itachi. He is added to Team 7 upon becoming a ninja and, through competition with his rival and best friend, Naruto Uzumaki, Sasuke starts developing his skills. Dissatisfied with his progress, he defects from Konoha so that he can acquire the strength needed to exact his revenge. His years of seeking vengeance and his actions that followed become increasingly demanding, irrational and isolates him from others, leading him to be branded as an international criminal. After learning the truth of his brother's sacrifice, later proving instrumental in ending the Fourth Shinobi World War, and being happily redeemed by Naruto, Sasuke decides to return to Konoha and dedicate his life to help protect the village and its inhabitants, becoming referred to as the "Supporting Kage".

Abilities:

Like his older brother Itachi, Sasuke is recognised as a natural prodigy of the Uchiha clan, graduating at the top of his class in the Academy. He makes a strong impression on Kakashi Hatake in the bell test, and could fight on par with strong shinobi, such as Haku and Gaara in Part I. After being under Orochimaru's tutelage for two-and-a-half years, Sasuke becomes strong enough to fight and even pressure Akatsuki member Itachi, as well as the Fourth Raikage. With the Six Paths Chakra, he is compared to the Sage of Six Paths by Kurama, which is demonstrated when he helped overwhelm Madara as the Ten-Tails' jinchūriki. Madara himself stated he would have chosen Sasuke over Obito as an apprentice if he was born years earlier.[23] As an adult, despite losing his left arm, his performance has shown no signs of impediment, as he could fight on par with Kinshiki Ōtsutsuki. Ultimately, he is regarded as a legendary shinobi[24] that like Naruto, is referred to as the strongest shinobi,[25] with the pair's combined strength being thought to be able to destroy the world.